---
published: true
title: Time for another thought-dump
layout: post
---
Thursday's InqPOP! Sessions had been fun. I didn't know what to expect. Our guest was Maryse et La Tribu and they were French. I checked stuff about them -- written about them -- online but everything was in French. I don't know any French, of course. I wondered how they found us. Irene booked them. I asked Irene and somebody from here -- one of Irene's contacts booked them. From a band. Local band. Forgot the name. Also in a local band. Does music management stuff and promotions too I guess.

So I found out enough to cobble together a decent set of questions and the interview went well I should say. Flowed pretty nicely. They were all very nice too. Lovely accent. One of them was English-American. Started out strongly with an American accent but towards the end when she was giving her final message right before the show ended you could hear the English accent taking over. She served as the translator for when some of the band members couldn't express what they were trying to say in English. 

After the show I approached Mary Kristine and asked if I could buy a copy of their CD. Instead she gave me their CDs. Two of them! Said it was a gift. Really cool of her. 

I liked their music a lot. Very different from what you usually hear -- exactly how I like my music. Or most stuff, for that matter. I dunno. I just like experiencing new things, hearing new musical styles -- something unfamiliar. Something novel. Same with graphic art styles. Yes there's lots of good stuff out there. Lots of really skilled -- highly skilled artists -- tremendous amount of talent -- very polished technical smooth crisp strokes and demonstration of skill -- obviously took years of practice -- non-stop just doing their thing, developing their thing, finding their style -- but then sometimes something will just hit you, you know? Something different. Might even be less skillful -- skill-wise -- rougher, edgier, more raw -- rawer (?) -- not as sleek. Scratchy, even. But man, does it hit you! When it hits you, it hits you hard and by you I mean me. There's just something about some style, some artists ,some voice that these people, some people has that builds and bubbles from the surface and what comes out is not some polished thing, some super polished thing, that everybody objectively professes as good -- and it's these things that I find really beautiful and good and talented. Comes from real talent. Not that the other stuff aren't real nor untalented. Of course they all are. But there's something about the individuality of some work -- whether it's art, literature, music, some craft -- anything, that just speaks volume of the character of the individual that made it. 

Finally finished Virtual Light yesterday! Took me forever -- like what, 3 weeks? That's a fucking long time. I read it fast when I started. Then it languished. Even brought it with me to work. But nah. Didn't really work, trying to read it at work. So in a mad dash to the end I finished it yesterday. What also helped was I was listening to it at the same time. Immersive reading. Because it's been too long and the gears weren't as smooth as when I started because the fires were -- the fire wasn't burning as hot as brightly as furiously -- though it was still there. Which is what happens to reading and writing, I find. If you put it off too long -- if you don't finish it right away -- it just goes away. And it takes more effort -- greater effort to continue and finish it with the same amount of fire and light as when you started. So there. The fact that I was also listening to it helped A LOT. Made it more alive in my head as I was reading it. Thanks to YouTube. Sometimes I would get so deep in the zone that the words disappear, both visually and aurally. And it would just be images. The images in my head. And I'm right in the middle of it and it's right in the middle of my mind's eye at the same time. Separate but indistinct. Two things at once. 

So once I was done with that I started right away with Altered Carbon. Not that I left it languishing as well. I've been listening to it consistently over the past two weeks, but always in bits and pieces. So I thought it's high time to finish it as well. So I found a copy online of the epub. I already bought the audio, so I didn't feel like I was stealing anything. I already paid for my copy of the book. So I read them -- read and listened in tandem. Got me far, so far. Had about 7 or so hours left when I started last night. As of now I had about 4 hours left. My concentration got better. Switching between listening and reading, to listening, and reading, made the experience more seamless and the story clearer stickier -- more alive. I would read and listen -- then do something quick while still listening -- then maybe stop both -- then start just reading -- then back to combining the two again. It was great! 

I was off to a good start at the beginning of this year. Averaged about a book and a half a week. Then stuff got in the way, like work and social media, and I admit that was partly my fault, especially social media. Man, once I get sucked in to that wormhole of people's opinions and shit, I get sucked in and enter a time warp and next thing I know, fucking crap, I spent three hours I could've spent reading something substantial. Sometimes I succeed. Those moments always felt good -- weekends when I would just tune out people's thoughts. And then I'm not looking for it anymore -- the chatter, the clatter of thoughts -- all the words and opinions and complaints and rants and raves and words that they think are important or that others care about. Insubstantial pieces of manufactured cleverness broadcast to a wide audience whose gratification lies in being recognized. Some are sincere. I like those. A lot aren't. A lot of these crap you see are just image-building. Just someone trying to establish an identity they manufactured for themselves but are so balls-deep in denial they're not even aware of it and/or couldn't even admit it to themselves. 

Well I'm going off again. I'll probably finish Altered Carbon tonight. I'm already looking at my tsundoku and there's a fucking lot in here. I'm already way behind. Not that finishing them all is the point. Of course not. Reading is always about the enjoyment of reading. Not finishing books for finishing's sake. 